RESEARCH PORTFOLIO
I have worked as a researcher since 2009, starting in behavioral sciences, later working on Human-Computer interaction (HCI), and now as a Senior UX researcher. My work can be classified into three main areas extended below. I have had the pleasure of applying my knowledge to product design and development in different companies and leading impactful research that reaches millions of users.

DESIGN RESEARCH
From experimental design to algorithm validation, I advocate for real-world testing that can complement the in-lab settings. I have been involved in exciting projects to improve multiple products, from wearables and consumer goods to mobile devices and 10-foot experiences. Conducting state-of-the-art research; can help us improve the experience of more people. In addition, by doing research, we can find the information needed to improve the product and give metrics that can help us benchmark our progress.

My main goal is to translate research findings into actionable recommendations. This is by designing lean experiments that can be replicated and tailored to understand the user and answer business questions. I advocate having behavioral log data to have large-scale patterns and in-depth knowledge through interviewing people to understand the "how" and "why" of their behavior.

USER RESEARCH
Given my hybrid background (psychology-computer science), this has been the most exciting part of my work. Understanding user behavior and creating digital solutions that will enhance their lives. I have experience in all the product's life cycle, from the early stages to the final products serving thousands of users.

General skills:
Usability testing (field, in-lab, remote)
Prototyping (low- and high-fidelity)
Surveys (Design and analysis)
Interviews
User Personas

RESEARCH OPS
Successful leadership starts with a person that lives to serve others. I have had the privilege to teach trainees and lead research teams in academia and international groups throughout my carrier. The challenges are the same in both worlds: communication is vital for success. One of the most successful projects across multiple companies has been the standardization of reports and consolidation, leading to higher visibility for the research team across numerous teams.